social login guide (#338)
mautic/user-documentation: docs/plugins/social_login.rst

.. vale off

Social Login Guide
=========================

> With Mautic's Social Login, users can easily sign in via their favorite social platforms like Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn. The social login feature automatically pre-fills forms with profile data and updates or creates new contacts in Mautic, streamlining the user experience.

Reviewer: With Mautic's social Login, users can easily sign in via their favorite social platforms like Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn. The social login feature automatically pre-fills forms with profile data and updates or creates new contacts in Mautic, streamlining the user experience.

Before You Begin: Setup Requirements
----------------------------------------

Before enabling social login, make sure you have created social media apps on the platforms you want to integrate:

- `X-Developer <https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/petition/essential/basic-info/>`_
- `Facebook <https://developers.facebook.com/products/facebook-login/>`_
- `LinkedIn <https://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=b2b85466e898e3f3JmltdHM9MTcyODQzMjAwMCZpZ3VpZD0wZmNhOGE5ZC05ODA0LTY0OGYtMjVhYy05ZWQwOTk2MzY1NjYmaW5zaWQ9NTE5Mg&ptn=3&ver=2&hsh=3&fclid=0fca8a9d-9804-648f-25ac-9ed099636566&psq=linkedin+developer+app&u=a1aHR0cHM6Ly9kZXZlbG9wZXIubGlua2VkaW4uY29tLw&ntb=1>`_

Once these apps are set up, you're ready to connect them to Mautic!

Step 1: Authorizing Social Media Plugins
----------------------------------------

Before you can use social login, each social media plugin needs authorization. Here’s how to do it:

> To get started with social login, you’ll first need to authorize each plugin:

Reviewer: To get started with social login, you’ll first need to authorize each plugin:

delete this line, it's the same thing mentioned above

> 1. Copy the Callback URL:

Reviewer: `1. **Copy the Callback URL**: Go to Mautic's plugin configuration window and copy the Callback URL provided there. Paste it into the appropriate field in your social app setup.`

This can be written this way instead of multiple lines

   After creating your social app, the platform will ask for a Callback URL.

   - Go to Mautic's plugin configuration window and copy the Callback URL provided there.
   - Paste it into the appropriate field in your social app setup.

 .. image:: images/Call_back.png
    :width: 400
    :alt: Screenshot of a call back url input field.

> 2. Add Your API Keys:

Reviewer: `2. **Add Your API Keys**: Copy the API Key (Client Key) and API Secret (Client Secret) from the social platform. Paste these keys into the relevant fields in the Mautic plugin configuration.`

same comment as "1"

   Now that your social app is set up:

   - Copy the API Key (Client Key) and API Secret (Client Secret) from the social platform.
   - Paste these keys into the relevant fields in the Mautic plugin configuration.
.. image:: images/API_key.png
    :width: 400
    :alt: Screenshot of an API Key input field.

> 3. Authorize the Plugin:

Reviewer: `
3. **Authorize the Plugin**: In the Mautic plugin configuration, click **Authorize**. Ensure the plugin is marked as **Published** by toggling the option to “Yes”. Finally, save your configuration to complete the setup. 
`

Same comment as "1"

   - In the Mautic plugin configuration, click **Authorize**.
   - Ensure the plugin is marked as **Published** by toggling the option to “Yes”.
   - Save your configuration to complete the setup.

.. Tip:: You can manage each social network under its respective tab in Mautic’s plugin settings. Make sure each network is fully authorized by adding the required API credentials.

Step 2: Adding Social Login Buttons to Forms
--------------------------------------------

Once your plugins are authorized, you can add social login buttons to your Mautic forms.

> 1. Create or Edit a Form:

Reviewer: delete this

_Create or Edit a Form:_

Instead it should be like this

`1 . Go to the Forms section in Mautic and either create a new form or edit an existing one.`

   Go to the Forms section in Mautic and either create a new form or edit an existing one.

> 2. Add the Social Login Field:

Reviewer: same comment here as well

   Select the **Social Login** field from the form builder. Buttons for all authorized social platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn) will automatically appear.

> 3. Pre-fill Form Fields:

Reviewer: same comment here as well

.. image:: images/adding_social_login.png
   :alt: Mautic plugin configuration screen showing authorized status
   :width: 400
.. note:: 
   Only the buttons for plugins you’ve authorized will work in the form. Ensure all integrations are configured correctly for a smooth user experience.

Step 3: Configuring Features and Mapping Contact Fields
-------------------------------------------------------

Once the plugin is authorized, you can customize how Mautic handles the incoming social profile data.

1. Map Social Profile Fields to Mautic Fields:

   Under the **Contact Field Mapping** tab in the plugin settings, map the fields from the user’s social profile (e.g., Email, Name) to the appropriate Mautic contact fields.

   - You only need to map fields that are relevant to your form.
   - Unmapped fields will not be used to update or create contacts in Mautic.

Example: Map **First Name** from Facebook to **First Name** in Mautic's contact fields.

Supported Social Profile Fields
-------------------------------

Each platform provides different user data fields. Here's a quick reference of the fields you can map:

> 

Reviewer: This part should be written this way

```
- **Twitter**: Profile Handle, Name, Location, Description, URL, Time Zone, Language, Email.

- **Facebook**: First Name, Last Name, Name, Gender, Locale, Email, Profile Link.

- **LinkedIn**: First Name, Last Name, Maiden Name, Formatted Name, Headline, Location, Summary, Specialties, Positions, Public Profile URL, Email Address.

```

> .. vale off

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Please don't turn Vale off. It's here to help us write better documentation.

> .. vale off

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Please don't turn Vale off. It's here to help us write better documentation.

> Social Login

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Social login
```

############

> With Mautic's Social Login, users can easily sign in via their favorite social platforms like Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn. The social login feature automatically pre-fills forms with profile data and updates or creates new contacts in Mautic, streamlining the user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Mautic's Social Login, Users can easily sign in via their favorite social platforms like Twitter, Facebook, or LinkedIn. The social login feature automatically pre-fills Forms with profile data and updates or creates new Contacts in Mautic, streamlining the user experience.
```

> Before You Begin: Setup Requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you begin: setup requirements
```

Vale fix - don't use Camel Case in headings.

> ------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
************************************
```

Fix headings to use the correct nesting levels

> Before enabling social login, make sure you have created social media apps on the platforms you want to integrate:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before configuring social login, make sure you have created apps on the developer platforms for the social media profiles you want to integrate:
```

- :xref:`X-developer`
- :xref:`Facebook developer`
- :xref:`LinkedIn developer`

> Once these apps are set up, you're ready to connect them to Mautic!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once created, you're ready to connect them to Mautic.
```

Passive -> Active voice, Vale fix.

> Step 1: Authorizing Social Media Plugins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 1 - authorizing social media Plugins
```

> ----------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*****************************************
```

Fix to use correct heading nesting

> Before you can use social login, each social media plugin needs authorization. Here’s how to do it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you can use social login, each social media Plugin needs authorization. Here's how to do it:
```

Vale fix

> 1. **Copy the Callback URL**: Go to Mautic's plugin configuration window and copy the Callback URL provided there. Paste it into the appropriate field in your social app setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Copy the Callback URL**: go to Mautic's Plugin configuration window and copy the Callback URL provided there. Paste it into the appropriate field in your developer app setup.
```

 .. image:: images/Call_back.png
    :width: 400

>     :alt: Screenshot of a call back url input field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :alt: Screenshot of a callback URL input field.
```

> 2. **Add Your API Keys**: Copy the API Key (Client Key) and API Secret (Client Secret) from the social platform. Paste these keys into the relevant fields in the Mautic plugin configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Add Your API Keys**: copy the API Key - Client Key - and API Secret - Client Secret - from the social platform. Paste these keys into the relevant fields in the Mautic Plugin configuration.```

.. image:: images/API_key.png
    :width: 400
    :alt: Screenshot of an API Key input field.

> 3. **Authorize the Plugin**: In the Mautic plugin configuration, click **Authorize**. Ensure the plugin is marked as **Published** by toggling the option to “Yes”. Finally, save your configuration to complete the setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Authorize the Plugin**: in the Mautic Plugin configuration, click **Authorize**. You must **turn on** the Plugin - do this by toggling the option to “Yes”. Finally, save your configuration to complete the setup.
```

> .. Tip:: You can manage each social network under its respective tab in Mautic’s plugin settings. Make sure each network is fully authorized by adding the required API credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Tip:: You can manage each social network under its respective tab in Mautic's Plugin settings. Make sure each network is fully authorized by adding the required API credentials.
```

> Step 2: Adding Social Login Buttons to Forms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 2: adding social login buttons to Forms
```

Camel case fix

> --------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
********************************************
```

Use the correct heading nesting levels

> Once your plugins are authorized, you can add social login buttons to your Mautic forms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Having configured the social Plugins, you can add social login buttons to your Mautic Forms.
```

> 1. Go to the Forms section in Mautic and either create a new form or edit an existing one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to the Forms section in Mautic and either create a new Form or edit an existing one.
```

Vale fix

> 2. Select the **Social Login** field from the form builder. Buttons for all authorized social platforms (e.g., Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn) will automatically appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select the **Social Login** field from the Form builder. Buttons for all authorized social platforms - for example Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn automatically appear.
```

> 3. When users log in using their social accounts, Mautic will attempt to automatically fill in fields like **Name** or **Email** based on their social profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. When Users log in using their social accounts, Mautic attempts to automatically fill in fields like **Name** or **Email** based on their social profile.
```

.. image:: images/adding_social_login.png

>    :alt: Mautic plugin configuration screen showing authorized status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :alt: Mautic Plugin configuration screen showing authorized status
```

   :width: 400

.. note:: 

>    Only the buttons for plugins you’ve authorized will work in the form. Ensure all integrations are configured correctly for a smooth user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Only the buttons for Plugins you've authorized work in the Form. Ensure you've configured all Integrations correctly for a smooth User experience.
```

> Step 3: Configuring Features and Mapping Contact Fields

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 3: configuring features and mapping Contact fields```

> -------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*******************************************************
```

> Once the plugin is authorized, you can customize how Mautic handles the incoming social profile data. Under the **Contact Field Mapping** tab in the plugin settings, map the fields from the user’s social profile (e.g., Email, Name) to the appropriate Mautic contact fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After configuration and authorization of the Plugin, you can customize how Mautic handles the incoming social profile data. Under the **Contact Field Mapping** tab in the Plugin settings, map the fields from the User's social profile - for example Email, Name - to the appropriate Mautic Contact fields.
```

> - You only need to map fields that are relevant to your form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You only need to map fields that are relevant to your Form.
```

> - Unmapped fields will not be used to update or create contacts in Mautic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Unmapped fields aren't used to update or create Contacts in Mautic.
```

> Example: Map **First Name** from Facebook to **First Name** in Mautic's contact fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example: map **First Name** from Facebook to **First Name** in Mautic's Contact fields.
```

> Supported Social Profile Fields

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supported social profile fields
```

> -------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*******************************
```

Each platform provides different user data fields. Here's a quick reference of the fields you can map:

> - **Twitter**: Profile Handle, Name, Location, Description, URL, Time Zone, Language, Email.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Twitter**: profile handle, name, location, description, URL, time zone, language, email address.
```

> - **Facebook**: First Name, Last Name, Name, Gender, Locale, Email, Profile Link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Facebook**: first name, last name, name, gender, locale, email address, profile link.
```

> - **LinkedIn**: First Name, Last Name, Maiden Name, Formatted Name, Headline, Location, Summary, Specialties, Positions, Public Profile URL, Email Address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **LinkedIn**: first name, last name, maiden name, formatted name, headline, location, summary, specialties, positions, public profile URL, email address.
```

> .. vale on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
